thank you all for joining me today um
we're going to talk a little bit about
the metrics that matter for your
business
and we're going to talk about it from a
context of fundraising but what's really
important to remember is these metrics
should actually be the underlying force
in your day-to-day operations because
they really do give you a proxy for the
health of your company
so i'm going to go through four specific
areas of metrics that i think are the
most important to convey clearly as an
entrepreneur
but we're also going to talk about why
these metrics themselves are so crucial
and why they really are interconnected
uh into the entire company as a whole
but first i want to start with a story
so a couple years ago i met a company
that had incredible metrics
the business was 10 million in arr they
were tripling year on year they had 150
net dollar retention
95 gross dollar retention and they were
burning the same amount that they were
adding in net new arr during that year
we ended up passing on the business
and this is because when we questioned
the team about why these metrics were so
good they came up pretty dry it was
almost like they had fallen into these
amazing metrics but they didn't have a
good conception of what drove them in
the underlying way
and so what the big takeaway from this
presentation should be is that it's not
just the metrics themselves that matter
but it's your command and your control
of these metrics that will make a big
difference
and it's pretty empowering because
nobody will have perfect metrics but if
you understand your own ones in a
granular way you're really well
positioned to fundraise especially in
today's climate
so now let's dive into some of the key
areas that are most important to
understand the first is growth
and we often get the question how fast
should i be growing i think it must be a
really annoying question
but the logic and the reality here are
kind of
mismatched so logically speaking you
would expect that as a company grows
linearly or even exponentially the
expectation around growth should fall at
a pretty similar rate
the reality is not the case so we'll
often see founders frustrated because
they think oh at 5 million in arr i was
expected to grow 100
and now i'm at 10 million in arr and i'm
still expected to grow 100
doesn't seem to make that much sense
and that's why it's really hard to do
benchmarks around growth because
investors have different expectations
and the growth rate is really taken in
conjunction with the broader picture of
the company
all that being said
there are a couple things that can help
guide
so from one year after launch to get to
one million in arr would be considered
very very good nine months is excellent
this is from launch not after
incorporation
and then after that triple triple double
double double is considered best in
class but again i want to emphasize that
all this should be taken in conjunction
with the broader picture on metrics
and it's important to emphasize net new
arr
and this is what differentiates a
company that's growing linearly from a
company that's accelerating so for
instance if you're adding 5 million in
net new arr every year you're going from
15 million to 20 million to 25 million
that's a really linear growth trajectory
if your net new arr is accelerating and
you went from 5 to 10 to 20
that company is going to have a j curve
and so you can set yourself apart as a
really metrics driven and thoughtful
investor an entrepreneur by showing this
net new arr number when you're trying to
fundraise and you're trying to convey
your own growth
even at very small stages so if you
added 100k in that new arr last quarter
and then you added 300k the next quarter
it's really helpful to show that
acceleration and it will get investors
very excited about your growth
trajectory
now the rest of these metrics are a lot
more benchmarkable than growth and so
for the rest of the slides we're
actually going to see
a pretty clear framework on what the
expectations should be if you're selling
into smb businesses and if you're
selling into large
enterprises
that's a good echo um
so
in today's day and age burn is becoming
more important than ever
and i think one of the most interesting
metrics to track with burn is just your
net new arr divided by your burn and
some people do it the other way around
they do your burn over your net new arr
generally speaking around one is
considered very good so if you added
500k of arr in a given year and you
burned 500k
that would be excellent
and at later stages let's say you added
15 million of net new arr and you burned
12 million that would be very very good
hyper technical products are held to
different burn standards and so if
you're an entrepreneur and you have a
really interesting reason why your burn
is so high you should absolutely convey
that so at least there's understanding
for why the burn metrics might be
slightly different
and then on cash runway this is
something that's changed a lot in the
last couple of months
so in 2021 it was grow at all costs you
know party season super fun
and we were typically advising companies
to have about 12 months
of cash runway on hand
fundraising environment was very
different than what it is right now
so we've adjusted at index our own
guidance around this to extend runway as
much as possible ideally to 24 months
which should give everyone enough time
to ride out different market
fluctuations and continue to grow and
optimize other metrics as well
but when it comes to burn what you
really want to think about is the end
state business that you're building so
it's one thing to look at the burn
metrics on a given quarter or on a given
year
but many investors particularly at later
stages want to see a line of sight to 20
to 30 percent free cash flow margins
and that may seem like a really far off
uh far off milestone but it's about
understanding the business model itself
and making sure that that business model
has the potential to some bit someday be
very profitable
now a couple of bootstrapped businesses
have shown really good clear good
examples of how to grow really fast
while not consuming a lot of capital i'm
going to give two examples of businesses
that do the same thing and have had
different ways to grow in a bootstrapped
way so one is here in barcelona a type
form they make survey software
and typeform was bootstrapped for a
really long time before we had index
invested in them
and their unfair advantage their reason
that they were able to grow so
profitably was in many ways due to the
product design itself so typeform is
really beautiful
if you've taken a typeform survey you
might think oh this is pretty nice i'm
going to send this to somebody else
and that's exactly what happened they
had a lot of organic virality and so
they were able to sell fund with their
revenue for many years
there's another company in the united
states called qualtrics they do the
exact same thing as typeform it's really
modern survey software
qualtrics took a different approach to
growing while bootstrapped
they gave out their software for free to
university students and university
students would use that to do a
psychology study or any kind of survey
they were running on campus
and then those university students would
graduate and they would go off into
mckinsey or procter and gamble and they
already knew how to use qualtrics
themselves
so two companies doing the same thing
using very different strategies very
different unfair advantages in order to
manage burn while growing rapidly
and that's one of the main messages from
today is find your own unfair advantage
across any of these metrics that you can
exploit and you can convey clearly to
investors when they ask you why is this
metric so good what have you done right
but the last point about burn that i'll
make is that if someone tells you to
grow faster
while burning less money i think you're
completely within your right to give
them this face
so you have your customers
you're growing as a whole
but the holy trinity of these retention
metrics
is the most important part
of
one of the most important parts of an
investor's analysis into the health of
your business
and i call this the holy trinity because
i don't think any of these metrics on
their own individually are particularly
interesting at all
they exist together and we often see
entrepreneurs and founders not even cite
metrics like gross dollar retention
which i think is really selling
themselves short
so logo retention of course is the most
basic
measure of retention how many customers
do i have today relative to where i
started the year or the quarter or
however you measure it
gross dollar retention is the same thing
but it's with the dollars spent the
total revenue versus the number of logos
themselves
and these two together are really
interesting
so for example let's say you have a
gross dollar retention that's higher
than your logo retention so your gross
dollar retention is 85
and your logo retention is 70
so
not amazing
um what this can tell an investor
is actually that your larger acv
contracts your bigger dollar contracts
are sticking around more than your
smaller ones more logos have turned but
you're still retaining that revenue and
that's really important to know and
actually can be really helpful in giving
a lot more confidence into the business
you're building
on the flip side gross retention and net
dollar retention together can also be
really interesting
so let's say you have incredible net
dollar retention you have 160
ndr
and then your gross retention is 60
what that tells an investor is that some
of your customers are doing
exceptionally well with your software
they're upselling in a massive way
but others are not having product market
fit at all and they're falling off
this is really good to know it's a proxy
for
product market fit it's a proxy for
market size even because it tells you
that only a certain subset of customers
really are finding use in your product
so these three metrics exist all
together and they're really really
important to convey when you're talking
to investors and when you're managing
your business as a whole
and actually tomas jungas did a really
interesting study on net dollar
retention which i found fascinating
where he he looked at a company and held
everything else equal besides net dollar
retention
and he just changed uh ndr from 160 to
120 and when the ndr was 160
versus 120 percent the company grew 4.2
times over a five-year period so it
shows the power of net dollar retention
but what i would say is don't forget
about gross dollar retention because
it's really important as well
the last point on this is we sometimes
get the question when should we show
cohort retention and it can be a little
bit confusing because these three
measures are all measured on a trailing
12-month basis and then some people go
off and show the cohorts and i
understand why it might be uncertain
when to use
which
for enterprise software businesses i
recommend that you show cohort retention
cohort based retention if you've had
time stamped changes
so for instance let's say you made a big
change to your product in september of
2020 and after that change
you've seen cohorts perform at a much
higher level than earlier ones give
yourself credit for that improvement
and show on a cohort basis how those
cohorts have stacked and improved over
time
if you haven't had major changes
you're trailing 12-month retention and
your 12-month cohort retention are
probably going to look very very similar
so there's no need to show both
so i want to talk about sales
efficiencies but first i want to tell
you about a bathing suit that i recently
bought
so i had seen this bathing suit on my
instagram i think like 11 months ago and
it was really cute i liked it
i saw it again on my twitter a couple
months later
and then i saw it again on my instagram
and i logged into facebook for some
reason i saw it there
months and months go by it was winter in
london i wasn't buying a bathing suit
and finally this may i sucked it up and
i bought it
i got it on a bit of a discount
i'm probably never going to shop at the
brand again
and this is a really good example of
terrible sales efficiencies the amount
that this brand spent to acquire me as a
customer
was
probably in the hundreds of dollars
and yet i bought a 50 bathing suit and
i'm probably never going to buy from
them ever again
now the same goes for sales efficiencies
in enterprise software businesses you
want to make sure you're really
understanding the ltv of your customer
and the cost that it takes to acquire
them now there are a lot of metrics
around sales efficiencies and sometimes
it can be like alphabet soup
the two most important ones
are cac payback period in months
and three year ltv to cac
and i argue this is the case because for
cac payback period months you get a
really clear understanding of how
quickly it takes to pay back the cost of
acquisition and therefore how quickly
you can acquire many customers at scale
but cac payback period in months is only
one part of the equation
because when you're saying okay it took
me 12 months to recoup the cost of
acquiring that customer
you're not really seeing what that
customer does after you've already
reacquired that cost
so let's say it takes 12 months to
acquire a logo but then in the next two
years they upsell and they upsell again
and they upsell again
you want to show the three year lt
vitacak or even the five year ltv to cac
in order to give yourself credit for the
amount of ltv that's generated after
you've already paid back that customer
so i think it's really important to show
both of these metrics
and there are a couple examples of
businesses that have really optimized
their sales efficiencies metrics by
again utilizing unfair advantages
so i'll give you two
one is a business called pacom and pacom
sells human capital management software
not the sexiest product
lots of companies doing that
and really hard to make those sales so
what they did was pretty inventive
they took their sales reps uh they took
their sales rep model and threw it out
the window and instead of hiring
experienced reps from other companies
who had sold that kind of software
before which you think would be pretty
rational they instead decided to hire
people with no sales experience
whatsoever they took these people they
gave them a really strong training
playbook and then when they opened up
new geographies they would put little
swat teams of these people in the new
geos
and this
worked fantastically well for pacom they
were able to scale their sales
organization in a very efficient way and
their cache payback period in months is
still among best in class when you look
at publicly traded companies
a very different unfair advantage is a
company called viva
so viva sells software to the life
sciences and biotech company they sell
compliance and crm software
and their unfair advantage their reason
why they were able to achieve such
strong sales efficiencies was in many
ways because of the vertical market they
were in
and this is one of the advantages of
vertical sas businesses in general
they have a really defined sales
universe where people talk
so they got a couple of key logos using
their platform and then all of those
businesses went and told all their other
friends in the life sciences world how
great viva was
and they optimized on expansion in order
to optimize their sales efficiency so
their ltv for these customers was
massive when they layered on additional
products and continued to upsell them
over time so two very different routes
to getting strong sales efficiencies but
both very effective
and then finally what about everything
else so these four areas growth burn
retention sales efficiencies are what i
think are the most important to clearly
convey
but there are plenty of other metrics
that are really important to show as
well
so first of all company specific metrics
are fascinating to investors
what your north star metric is is
something that we always want to see and
how you're managing to that metric over
time
but also things like gross margin
nps acvs
and particularly with things like gross
margin and nps it's really helpful to
benchmark for your own market
so if you're selling customer support
software which has historically really
low nps but you're crushing it and your
nps of 10 is way higher than everyone
else's negative nps show that and give
yourself credit for that strength
gross margin is another one that's
really interesting when we invested in
revolut they had a negative gross margin
and it was something that we saw the
founder be really attentive to over time
and he made decisions over the uh over
the recurring occurring years that
helped push this margin up to the place
where it sits today
so improvement is possible for any
metric if the founder or the team has a
command and control and visibility into
what those metrics look like
and then acvs just a quick note on this
there's a common misconception that 30k
acvs are the valley of death and that no
big businesses have been built with 30k
acvs i think this is absolutely wrong
and we have plenty of examples now um
avalara or even like one trust being
examples um and so there's no right
answer with acvs
but showing that progression again
whether you're moving up market or
whether you're moving down market and
have a really good reason for moving
down market
that can be really important
and then finally investors are used to
receiving data in relatively similar
ways
and so it's helpful to
avoid things like cumulative data which
are not normal for us or not typical for
us to to read
and try to just demonstrate your metrics
in the most clear and concise way as
possible
a couple of key takeaways from today
one is that strong metrics typically
reflect some sort of unfair advantage
whatever your unfair advantage is
understand it and convey it well and
there's no right unfair advantage it
depends a lot on what others in your
market are doing
the second is that all metrics are
interconnected and some can supercharge
more than others
so many investors typically at later
stages will end up building a model
based off of the metrics that you
provide
and this model is really just putting
everything into one unified data format
and then playing with different
assumptions and in these models you can
see really clearly how the metrics all
work together
and some like i would argue gross dollar
retention which is my favorite metric
can really supercharge your business
more than others
and finally nobody has perfect metrics
and so there's no expectation that every
number on the page is going to look a
certain way
but what you can do is have a thoughtful
action plan around how to improve
certain metrics and you can have a
command and control over your own
organization
through your metrics
sometimes i think that being a founder
seems really daunting
investors seem to have all these
expectations you have to grow quickly
but don't burn too much money you need
to have really strong net dollar
retention but don't have too long of a
cac payback period there's a lot going
on
but what we've seen time and time again
are entrepreneurs who embrace this
uncertainty embrace this chaos
and they manage to get a command and
control over the metrics in their
organization
and there are tools that can help with
this so first of all there are tons of
blog posts about sas metrics many of
which i consulted for this presentation
there are also dedicated sas management
vendors that help you integrate all of
your data and show it in a really nice
clean way
i think one thing that's even more
challenging than just wrangling your
data or putting it on a slide though
is building an organization that's
oriented and aligned around metrics it's
really a cultural problem at the end of
the day
and so for that there are companies like
gtm hub and our portfolio which is okr
management that gives everyone on the
team a metric that they're accountable
to and shows across the entire team how
these metrics can sit together and also
just provides the visibility for upper
management into how the team is tracking
towards the various metrics that will
end up driving the health of the
business
so with that i want to open it up to a
couple minutes of questions but thank
you so much for the time and attention
and i'll be here afterwards if you want
to chat more
let's see
yeah so the question is why is gross
dollar retention my favorite metric
so if you look at the logo retention on
a given year
let's say you start the year with 100
logos and then you end the year with 92
you'd have 92 percent logo retention but
it doesn't tell you anything about those
logos themselves i don't know if i lost
eight self-service customers that were
barely paying anything they could have
been paying one dollar a piece i'd have
no idea if i only saw the logo retention
if i see the gross dollar retention
you're saying at the beginning of the
year you had a hundred dollars at the
end of the year you had fifty dollars
jesus christ you know there's a lot of
big customers that are leaving my
platform
and so when you have them together you
have a really nuanced understanding and
if you have both of those metrics you
can see okay i lost a certain amount of
logos but looks like they were pretty
small and i still retained most of my
dollars or maybe it's the opposite maybe
i have still a 98 of my logos but that
one logo i lost was 40 of my revenue
and so having these two together is
absolutely crucial in my opinion and
it's criminally underrated you would be
really surprised how few people ever
cite this metric when i think it's one
of the the key underlying drivers of
business health
first of all thank you molly for the
presentation straight to the
i point
a two questions about acv the first
question is in an enterprise business we
i mean it's typically we look at arr but
in enterprise software acv is very
important right so my question is
um if we consider acv arr plus
customization and implementation fees um
if we look at the cohort like a cohort
of a year what is a healthy ratio of ar
to acv like say a company that has
an acv of uh
a million dollar for the year uh 800 000
of it is arr and 200 000 is other fees
so 80 of the acv is arr how would we
benchmark that to the standard of the
market from from the eyes of the
investors and my second question is
about tcv is tcv a real metric or a bs
metric
very good questions um
on the first i'd say 80 plus would be a
good benchmark
anything below that uh there should be a
really clear reason or a really clear
understanding for why that is the case
tcv is a very good question
i would say don't over emphasize tcv's
investors have have began to take this
with a grain of salt particularly in
today's market nothing is for sure
and so if you have you know a
five million dollar five-year tcv
you can also just refer to that as a one
million arr contract um and you know of
course giving yourself credit for that
uh that tcv and mentioning it as well
but not necessarily building your entire
future business off of these contracts
which may or may not break over the
coming years and having a real humility
and
clarity in that is something that will
really impress investors because they're
probably thinking it and if you as a
founder say
it's a three-year 3 million tcb contract
we're acting like it's a one year one
millionaire contract with some upside
they're going to say this person's got a
great head on their shoulders
hi this is working out yeah hi we're
actually an index company my name is
kenyos um i have two questions actually
one is when you talk about new arr are
you referring to
new customers or new arr from upsells as
well
and then my second question is as in our
case at thailand are
we have two sources of revenue one is
sas licenses but we also
because we do payments we have a
transaction fee that we
um charge and it's actually 50 50 right
now so big debate in the company is do
we treat
you know benchmark metrics
total revenue or do we strip out just
you know the license revenue which is
tricky because
from the customer's perfect perspective
it really is coming out of the same
budget so um we're debating whether we
should just benchmark on
pure
sas revenue or bundle it all together
and so we do both actually but i'd like
to hear your opinion on what you would
advise
yeah really really good question so when
it comes to net new arr the calculation
that investors will make is new
plus upsell minus down sell and churn so
it's inclusive of all of the movements
all of the revenue movements of that
given time period that given quarter or
that given year
and so that's why it's a really helpful
metric because it kind of cuts through
all of the noise and says what did we
add what did we lose this is where we're
at
and then when it comes to your second
question so
there's a lot of nuance around companies
that have kind of dual business models
like yours and sometimes we see things
like reoccurring revenue cited in a
pitch deck or um you know gross revenue
run rate uh and and things like that
things that aren't necessarily arr and
error is the most easily benchmarkable
one
my advice if your business model is is a
little bit more complex and has multiple
components
is just to show it exactly as it is so
if you're showing a graph and half of
that volume half of that run rate
revenue run rate is from true arr and
half of it is from
uh you know payments volume cut split
that out so that there's nothing left
for the investor to discover or you know
find out in diligence
and and there's no wrong answer you know
i don't think anymore that investors are
so myopic that they're only valuing
companies based off of arr you will get
credit for those alternative streams of
revenue as well but it's important to
clearly label it and not try to make it
into arr when it's not actually arr and
the good thing is you don't have to i
mean we're seeing payments businesses
being valued at extraordinary levels
maybe not as much recently
but you know we're seeing payments
revenue
uh have a moment in the sun so there's
no need to force everything into an arr
framework if it's not really arr
i think maybe i have time for one more
if there's another question
thank you for the great presentation um
it doesn't matter too much but i wonder
if you have any best practices in tools
or how you want to track these metrics
yeah it's a it's a great question um
i like sas optics uh sas optics i think
is pretty good um
there was another one
uh
and then
on the okr side i'm completely biased
because it's one of our investments but
gtm hub is amazing um it basically makes
it so that everyone in the organization
has a metric the management decides what
metrics are important and then the
individual also decides what metrics are
important they have kind of like a
checklist for how they can get to that
metric and then if you're the management
team you can see across your entire
organization for every functional area
how those metrics are faring and how
each individual person is faring in
their quest to achieve xyz metric so i
think they're amazing we did a big
survey of the market and found them to
be the strongest
but there are also some really good
excel templates that you can find online
if you're looking for something a little
bit lower cost
especially for like bringing your raw
mrr data into a more readable format
there are some pretty interesting excel
templates for that and there are also
some lower cost providers that are just
kind of more bare bones getting you to
that pitch deck
[Music]
you